hello everyone welcome to the Monday
September 16th core implementations
weekly sync woot
I am facilitating since Alan has a
brand-new baby who is super cute baby no
name we're very excited to meet baby no
name and even it's even birthday and he
is interested so it's a it's a happy day
for everybody I'm excited to help out
here big thank you to Jake for
note-taking and everyone drop in your
updates to the initiatives so we can get
going
Stephen do you want to start with a
quick update on the past release if you
have sufficient service
sure well there's no piston pastor this
is going to be a new release it's been a
very quick one to fix build issues
ongoing but one three and I believe it
may also be some publishers it won't buy
one two two two upstream disappearing
when certain kids is had same issue with
the last police ever since one so yeah
there'll be a new release to fix issues
that's it so not actually new features
within ipfs just new type EMS no I got
another patch release I go one for
laundry
you
being slow so I can finish typing before
he tells us what he's typing yes I've
been in really central this week so
remote been running our tests against
the test were running the new RC against
tests of a bunch of repo so we started
with internal repos and they were all
great and then of course is a party we
fell over which is great because we
found otherwise wouldn't affirm until
after release so that's cool so I've
been looking into that yeah it's a
difference in how because we upgraded to
node fetch and there's something
different around that than how you send
requests because if it's wait I wait for
Jes dozen what you got is tedious anyway
so looking into that more opened a bunch
of issues on a whole bunch of
third-party repos to say hey join the
early release program so that we can
like get basically get them to do what
I'm doing right now yeah just trying to
automate everything so I added running
the intro test to the build so they now
run on every PR which is going to be
interesting actually like running all of
our interface test has led to more
stable interface test I fear this will
lead to more stable interval tests as
well there's like a fringe benefit the
next thing to do is going to be to
automate running against what our
internal repos and then all of those
third-party repos and then automate
opening the PRS for them which is cool
because they're opting into all that
stuff at the moment I'm just kind of
doing it as sheer scripts that run on my
machine but it would be super rad
together running in CI instead so that
if my machine catches fire for whatever
reason it doesn't stop things from
working or exciting I mean any questions
or a small comment is on release process
from anyone
that's two votes team for having awesome
written processes speaking of quarterly
okay ours that is it a new institution
in this quarter and it seems to be
paying off already in terms of bugs
caught prior to releases which is super
awesome testing in front process okay so
I did last a little things last week but
the main thing I wanted to draw
attention to was this mapping exercise I
did which is linked in there and Molly
can you click on that but I just sort of
looked I started like a long term idea
like wouldn't where all the things that
we might possibly want to test you know
like a large-scale environment and then
I sort of I could look good look at the
ipfs goals we did early in the year and
try to match them up to so that cluster
them and put them in little buckets and
I came up with 10 sort of different
areas and these this is just something
right they came out of my brain but I'm
sorry I'm sort of curious if other
people did the same process sort of
mapping exercise but they would arrange
things in terms of party and I think
this is useful because in the next 30
days we want to get like basically 10
tests sort of written but I sort of
think they're sort of like almost like
sort of starter starting points and so I
sort of wanted to know like there's
probably not going to be these ten
buckets but you know I think I'm just
probably going to be more on like doing
some of the DHT changes out there from
the bit swap teenagers out there but I
think I'd like to talk one-on-one with
pretty much everybody in the company and
just sort of feel like where should we
be investing the time because that's
going to inform what the testers the
structure is going to look like so like
just hearing like Alex talked about the
testing he's adding that's that totally
maps on to this
I want to talk 101 with Alex obviously
so okay you can go back and then just
mention what roles working on he's been
working on this test ground engine which
is sort of the going to be used for
testing things like the DHT across like
thousand spending up ten thousand nodes
in running certain sort of tests and
it's like he's writing it and go and
it's going to use Nomad and run on a
cluster actively doing that I have to
review the code and see what he's been
doing and try to get some of that
running myself and I'm going to be doing
some traffic shaping work on that so
that's it for group very exciting and
the the tests the tests we discussed
those M there's a ten initial tests with
the next 30 days the aim is that once we
have once we have those tests up and
running it'll allow us to go ipfs
through those tests and validate that it
any changes that we may continue to
support the network being fully
operational and hopefully track our
improvements as we land a series of kind
of outstanding changes that we think you
need good network emulation prior to
being able to launch those publicly to
all of the the many nodes on the network
the objective is to you know our aim was
to get that done this quarter I think
our re message to get those tests within
the next thirty days such that we can be
landing and starting to run that through
our process I just like to say like on
the DHT stuff in particular this could
be quite difficult to test because like
some of these things that are breaking
the DHT are things that we see in the
wild and they might be sort of hard to
actually like reproduce in the test
environment so we'll have to alright
Alex anything to add for garbage
collection no nothing new it's been
merged in the release branch it's gonna
go out with visa April really and
next week or the start that we cost me
exactly I died there we know how long to
do the community section for the
community testing bit because there's
not really many many people in anything
Valentin maybe a worth shrinking from
the week-long period - yeah I don't know
Friday give yourself at least till
Monday
I'm sure cool gossip sir Oscar so the
initiative is closed the PR in Jessup
Ephesus merchants will be released with
garbage collection and pinning and now
we have also the config to choose what
the router we want to use it floods our
gossip so in the gossip service enabled
by default in GSI papers and that's it
congratulations that's awesome that's
super exciting son wall sub domain
gateway do we have a litel idols out
today right
well maybe my toe will add an update
later distributed signaling Jacob yeah
so this is still on hold
what we do are push on getting BJ's to
be refactor done snazzy and we will hold
off on talking to about that one for
like three more and then we can talk
cool
IP NS a Dean yeah
so basically reworking pub/sub to handle
topic registration separately from
publish and subscribe because I can't
figure out what appears I'm interested
in without subscribing because
subscribing is the only way to say I
care about something which is a little
awkward so that's that's going on there
there's a few PRS I'm getting feedback
from from Lupita P there also seemed to
be some leaking go routines running
around in the test I one of them over
there
we will probably run into more I'm out
next week for the ICN conference and
probably will be putting together some
Luka DP it's an IPS like overview slide
etc things for anyone who's interested
and that's yeah that is all for now
that's awesome I'm sure the IP NS
overview slides would be very
interesting to many people and we should
also find a ways to share those those
out if you have any recordings of the
work you guys do at the ICN conference
and putting them up on YouTube so that
people can can view and learn from them
would be super cool cool migration to
multi hash keys in blocks tour I do not
see an atom or a an Allen on this call
you know the latest status
you okay package manager updates dirt a
Dean Dominic
yeah I I believe Dirk is out today so
the only thing I guess we can really
update on is probably the bit swap stuff
Dirk's been putting a lot of effort into
that and it seems to be going pretty
well very well received and then the
Dean do you want to speak more on some
stuff yeah I mean the rest there's
there's you know I've been has stuff
which is his ongoing should be as we've
already talked about it Dominic's doing
doing mount things which I've been
seeing some demos progress some some
cool progress being made so that's good
and hopefully we should be able to just
get people to sing some stuff by amount
and that would be that would be super
nice yeah
Steven you have anything on bit swap
Thanks do what I do
Stephen you're a little bit of a robot
there you go
or maybe there you don't go more like
bit drop in my room oh sorry my network
is really unstable there no no updates
you hear that yeah I heard that one all
right no no updates this week I think
there are probably updates but we'll
hear them from Dirk later um
snazzy stuff more improvements in the
works alright then a sink a waitress
factor I'll discuss someone going to
present on Allen's behalf while he is
taking care of his newborn child yes
Alan has put in a ton of work on the
loopy async/await refactor and we are
taking that off his hands while he
enjoys life with new baby so but a few
things we just released the lip p2p TCP
refactor update today interface stream
Luxor's today Libby to BM Plex should be
going out either later today or tomorrow
and then we'll be wrapping up the
interface connection with all of this
we've been working on the new jeaious
Libby to be switch dial flow it's going
to be separating out logic a little bit
better with an actual upgrader which is
more similar to how go Liberty works and
so we've been doing all that parallel so
it's been a little bit slow getting
everything together but we're just about
over the hump so we should be able to
get interface connection also out today
or that's the next couple of days and
then we'll be working on the rest of the
dial flow is that Molly is pulling up
here we did create a Trello board to
kind of create a visual of hey these are
all the things that we're trying to get
done we'll be adding more as they go on
including things like integrating with
developers for who are consuming let p2p
like the Gospel sub like chain safe team
things like that to try to work on
making sure that that's a smooth upgrade
for people will also be creating
hopefully this week we're
on creating a contributor guide so that
we can have other people either
internally or externally help with some
of the reef actors so I'll be creating
some guides for that and then eventually
we'll create user guides for people for
migrating or just using the new async
iterative streams going forward so
hopefully that will be a much much
smoother process so yeah that's why we
know we have a very epic JSI PMS
async/await
migration issue but the Trello board is
really nice in terms of knowing where
things are definitely appreciate the
visual
well are there any other initiatives
that didn't get out of to this list that
we should add No
all right design review proposals Steve
I'm sorry I mean sorry brief question so
is the gossip sub J s epic thing like is
that is that done for next week I really
like it
it is done and it will be shipped once
Alex ships it so I think it's next week
exciting there are other questions I
can't see everyone's hands all at once
okay
then moving on to design review
proposals um Steven UNIX FSB - V 1.5 not
I yeah so if your internet please it by
uni meaning basically we're one point
some critical issues need to fix or
package managers without having to
redesign everything so that we don't
have like rush UNIX SB - out the door
because we need these feature max
managers yes you're interested a martini
well I'm a design review will be
scheduled for later this week presumably
such that we can have a a plan going
forward with for the quarter and
hopefully mitigate bike shedding yay
any other design review proposals things
that they need a decision or need to
make make progress get get two people in
a room make a call on something know any
blockers or asks
you
two blockers who asks everyone is
completely unblocked like I was seeing
some things that were blocked here any
open questions
I have a question for the testbed
endeavour is it is it documented what
the choices around containerization like
what for how hurt what's the I'm
interested in the process we get to from
here is a tested image that is provably
working better than the previous release
of go activist and how i ingest that in
the gateway infrastructure so we can
start to work towards deploying the
images that we test so I haven't spoken
to anyone about that contact point
between our two universes I don't know
if we yeah I think that's interesting
like what's like sort of like gets to
like what the dashboards look like and
how does it look in there a CIA test
yes you know we have all these unit
tests and things that run on the single
mode but then we also want to test
things with run these things cluster
type tests yeah do we call that together
into hip-hop heads like API is that you
can do like check stars and things that
maybe something we could do but hasn't
really been discussed yet okay I guess
even at the lowest of all like the
you're just producing docker compatible
images at this point as long as I know
what runtime we're targeting I can steer
steer the Gateway endeavor to be able to
ingest that yeah hasn't really been yeah
here's some context I believe the the
images should spit out that results in
2d Jason from on standard out yeah well
be dumped into in foxy be the nodes will
be control points probably using Redis
we're building some libraries around
this to make it easier to use for tests
that you think you were to run on like
one or two machines this is less
important just like most advanced you if
they handle things like hundred or
thousands of nodes
yeah didn't they dedicate yeah yeah it
would be nice to create some images as
part of the testbeds project that bacons
configurations that is mostly the same
as what we would want to run on the
gateways so that we have some test
scenarios that tests how this will run
in the gateways without having to run it
on the gateways which is currently where
we do most of our testing and I'd like
to move slowly away from that and to
start to receive well tested images with
configurations that we just deploy to
the Gateway yeah we can totally do that
yeah maybe we can have a discussion and
come on system requirement sounds good I
believe each physical machine own bug
Orchestrator docker image and then other
Cocker images running on top of that so
the other documents could be like the
default gateway emitters and then the
orchestrator one controller I think we
can do that I'm not sure we may have to
do some layering where like we start
with like a gateway image then add a few
things on top but that with run we're
all about nice yeah I just want it's
just an idea that's been rattling around
my head let's start the conversation I
will follow up it is a good idea
very good reasoning
any other questions
we're parking lot discussion topics yawn
Jill okay well then everyone add your
weekly update to the bottom so that
people can +1 and and see all the cool
stuff that you're doing and yeah
hopefully we have a design review coming
this week and a lot of exciting things
headed out with the J side give us
release which is super cool assume Alex
that you would probably be a good person
to add to this
unikz of us meeting as well nods cool
thumbs up snazzy
well take two extra minutes back for
yourself a wealth of time I'm so much it
can be done in the two extra minutes a
whole little snap dance from Holly style
and have a great rest your Monday happy
days
I buy my